# AI-related-projects
Projects I've done in relation to learning how to build my own Gen AI models

The first few projects will be in HTML as I can't seem to find the actual source file. If I find them, I shall add the actual ipynb file.


In the first project (FoodHub), the goal was to perform an exploratory data analysis and provide actionable insights for a food aggregator company to get a fair idea about the demand of different restaurants and cuisines, which would help them enhance their customer experience and improve the business. This could have been improved by deepening my multivariate analysis with additional plots (for example, I could have added in point-points), and I could have cleaned up any lingering error outputs that existed while I was working and completing the project. 

In the second project (Personal Loan Campaign), the goal was to to identify bank customers with a high likelihood of purchasing a loan. In order to do this, I had to analyze the provided data to understand key customer attributes influencing loan acquisition. In doing so, I built a predictive model that captured patterns and customer characteristics, which would help the bank effectively target potential loan buyers, improving marketing efforts and increasing conversion rates. For this project, I felt like I did a fairly good job at my first attempt. I do plan on going back once again to do a second try, with the knowledge I now have, to see if I could improve this any further. 

For the third project (EasyVisa), the goal was to analyze the data of visa applicants, build a predictive model to facilitate the process of visa approvals, and based on important factors that significantly influence the visa status recommend a suitable profile for the applicants for whom the visa should be certified or denied. While working on the project and a little after I finished it, I felt I had successfully completed the project in a strong manner. However, after taking a very brief look back, I noticed that I could have provided more detailed justifications for my technical choices and I could have more explicitly linked my insights back to the model's performance metrics. This allowed me to realize that there definitely could be improvements to the code, either to make it more efficient or to challenge myself in completing this project in a different manner. 

For my fourth project (Renewind), the goal was to create and improve classification models for ReneWind's wind turbine generator failures, enabling proactive maintenance and cost reduction. In doing so, we were to use sensor data to identify potential failures, minimizing false negatives and ensuring turbine repairs before breakdown. I chose the final models based on their ability to accurately predict failures, providing insights and recommendations to improve maintenance strategies and cost efficiency in wind energy production. This was during the course when we were introduced to Neural Networks and how to optimize them. In doing so, I felt like the best model for this project was to use a SGD model (Stochastic Gradient Model) due to the simplicity of the model, and for a large dataset, like the dataset we had, each update was computationally cheaper than calculating the gradient over the entire dataset (like what a BGD (Batch Gradient Descent) model would do) allowing for faster progress in the early stages of training. 

For my fifth project (Medical Assistant) (NLP RAG), the goal was develop a RAG-based AI solution using renowned medical manuals to address healthcare challenges. The main objective was to understand information overload, apply AI techniques to streamline decision-making, analyze its impact on diagnostics and patient outcomes, evaluate its potential to standardize care practices, and create a functional prototype demonstrating its feasibility and effectiveness. This was a project that definitely challenged me quite a bit as it required me to learn completely new techniques to fulfil the requirements set by this project. This is a project that definitely could be improved, and it's now led me to start working on a new RAG model that can assist one of my other hobbies (working on cars, I'm a bit of a car enthusiast).

For the sixth project (HelmNet), the goal was develop an automated image analysis system to detect whether workers are wearing safety helmets. This was after we learned about Image Processing and Convolution Neural Networks. 
